I am Nikolai Gogol.
Born in 1809, in Poltava gubernia, Ukraine.
I am one of the most famous Russian writers
of Ukrainian origin.
Having graduated from the Nizhyn Lyceum, I
left for Saint Petersburg in 1828 armed with
a manuscript and hope for a successful literary
career.
My aspirations were abruptly arrested by extremely
negative criticism of my sentimentally Romantic
narrative poem Hans Kuechelgarten.
Those were challenging days that led to big
changes in my life.
While working as a minor civil servant, I
spent my free time composing short stories
based on my observations and memories of life
in Ukraine.
This brought me immediate fame.
Hiding behind the authorial mask of Rudy Panko
the beekeeper, I managed to portray a world
where fantasy and reality intermingle in the
prism of the worldly-wise but unsophisticated
narrator, and thus Ukraine becomes at once
fanciful, humorous, nostalgic, and somewhat
poignant in its quaintness.
A work of mine called “The staging of The
Inspector-General” did not produce the result
I intended.
Shattered by the fact that my idea of the
moral influence of true art, I left Russia.
The years abroad were less productive.
I tried to escape depression through other
works such as Dead Souls and The Overcoat.
Disillusioned by the attacks that followed
my publications, I blamed myself for being
incapable of producing morally ennobling art.
Seeking refuge, I went on a pilgrimage to
Jerusalem, Palestine.
I enter a monastery and burned the second
part of Dead Souls, refused all food, and
stayed in bed until my death.
My works display different variations of the
Romantic style and masterly use of metaphor,
hyperbole, and ironic grotesque.
I was the first writer of the so-called Ukrainian
school in Russian literature to employ a host
of lexical and syntactic Ukrainianisms, primarily
to play with various stylistic levels from
the vulgar to the pathetic.
There are hundreds of translations of my works,
and I am recognized as one of the greatest
writers of the 19th century.
Always think of what is useful and not what
is beautiful.
Beauty will come of its own accord.